# AU_Biol Capstone Project

From the Smith Bee Lab: When honey bees build comb, they cluster on top of it, which makes it difficult to see the growing comb beneath. In the Smith Bee Lab, we would like to be able to study the bees’ building behavior, but the occlusions make it difficult to view the nest architecture. During this field season (2023) we have recorded colonies building and merging comb repeatedly, with images captured every 30sec. We now want to use image analysis to automatically detect and subtract pixels belonging to the bees, to then retain the pixels in the image that are NOT bees (i.e., background and growing comb). Images are captured in IR (no color), and ideally any image averaging would occur within a timescale that captures changes in the comb (e.g., 30-60 min). The ideal solution would be able to run in parallel with camera recordings, so that one could keep track of the comb growth in real-time (or, at least close to real-time, likely some delay for image processing). Those images are then used to create a video of the comb growth.

In the code for this repositiory, we solved this problem using semantic segmentation on the input images. Using an annotated dataset to train the model, we are able to identify where bees are on a given image and then remove the correlating pixels. After the bee pixels have been removed, we start with the first image and sequentially update it with the new information we observe in the following images. This method creates a timelapse in which one can see the comb being changed with every new frame.
